# how to build a world

In the end, a link to your world and a chunk are the only things you need to connect your environement to the Spacetime Meta. This mean you have no limitation on how to build your world. You can use any of the solutions proposed here or you can use your own way.

We still have to agree on the metaverse standards. One thing that is sure is that these standards will simply extend the already existing web standards and best practices. This means you wont have to use anything else than some javascript, html and css.

We strongly recomend 3D environements but you can always link to a classic 2D website like this page you are reading. Note that download links will be blacklisted.  

Here is a list of solutions to build your 3D world:
1. **Use the Spacetime Community Standard Kit** <- recomended
2. Build everything yourself using a library like threejs or babylonjs.
3. Build the world using unity/unreal and export it to WebGL.
4. Use a service to create and host your world.

## The Spacetime Community Standard Kit.  
The Spacetime Community Kit is the Recomended solution as it will take care of the metaverse integration and will be continuously updated. **This is not a final version!** This is only a first draft and will demand a lot of work and feedback from the community in order to be complete. There will be bugs and problems, but we invite you to contribute to this standard. To learn more you can read the [how to contribute](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ) documentation.

As of now, there are 4 steps in creating a world and connecting it to the Spacetime Metaverse. Click the *Learn more* link for precise infomation on each of these steps.
1. Create the terrain and assets then export your scene to the `.gltf/.glb` format. [learn more]()
2. Insert your terrain into the standard world. [learn more]()
3. Host the standard world and make it accessible. [learn more]()
4. Link the world to the Spacetime Meta map. [learn more](https://github.com/Spacetime-Meta/documentation/blob/main/post_on_the_map.md)

All the other options are either more complex or have huge downsides when it comes to metaverse integration.

## Build with Three.js or Babylon.js
This is the most difficult way to build the 3D world since you will have to do everything and thats is a lot of coding. On the other side, this is the recomended solution **if you are a pro** and building an app that is very different from the standard. Only chose this option **if you know what you are doing.**

Examples with Threejs:: https://threejs.org/examples/  
Examples with Babylonjs: https://www.babylonjs.com/games/ 

## Build with Unity or Unreal Engine
This solution is recomended if you are trying to build a **complex game that is independant form the metaverse** standards. There are many tutorials avaialable online for learning Unity and Unreal. On the downside, it might be more **difficult to integrate blockchain** fucntionanlities in an app generated by an export to WebGL.  

For more informations, we recommend searching youtube for introduction videos.

## Use a Web2 service.  
The is the easiest solution but it wont give you much freedom and has a lot of downsides. The best known services available now are:  

1. **[Muse](https://www.muse.place/)**.  
Muse in a user-friendly metaverse creation app. One of its cool features is that they have maps like museums that you can customize easily for free. 

2. **[Spacial](https://spatial.io/)**.  
Spacial is a metaverse itself that has been in development since 2016. They have multiplayer features with live voice chat. They also offer many paying services for people who want a turnkey 3D environnement. They have a connection with metamask.
 
The consequence of using services:
These services are great to have something quickly, but you will never truly own your 3D environment. If the service provider starts charging for some features, you’ll have no choice but to pay or lose your world. 

## Frequently asked questions

**Can I use something else?**  
Answer is yes, you can build your stuff with the software that you want. As long as you can host your 3D environment on a webpage.The important part is that people don't have to download you game or world before playing. 

**Now that I have a virtual environement, how to connect it to spacetime meta?**   
See the documentation [here](https://github.com/Spacetime-Meta/documentation/blob/main/post_on_the_map.md)
